Add missed datetime information (#4420)
tarantool/doc: doc/reference/reference_lua/datetime.rst

                -   0

            *   -   sec

>                 -   Seconds. Value range: 0 - 60. Leap second is supported, see a section :ref:`leap second <leap-second>`.

Author: Link to section `Leap second` doesn't work. Andrey, could you help please? @andreyaksenov

Reviewer: Please add the following anchor before the `Leap second` section:

```
.. _leap-second:

Leap second
-----------
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!

    *   RFC 3339
    *   extended `strftime <https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=strftime&sektion=3>`__ -- see description of the :ref:`format() <datetime-format>` for details.

    By default fields that are not specified are equal to appropriate values in a Unix time.

>     Leap second is supported, see a section :ref:`leap second <leap-second>`.

Author: Link to section `Leap second` doesn't work. Andrey, could you help please? @andreyaksenov

Author: Fixed.

    ---
    - true
    ...

Leap second
-----------

> Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is based on International Atomic Time (TAI).

Reviewer: Honestly, such detailed info about the leap second looks excessive for Tarantool docs. Can we make a short intro about TZDB in general and the leap seconds in particular, give a link to the external resource, and then jump right to the point (which is how all of these apply to Tarantool)?

Author: Updated.

    2011-12-31 23:59:59
    2011-12-31 23:59:60 <-- leap second
    2012-01-01 00:00:00
    2012-01-01 00:00:01
    2012-01-01 00:00:02

The decision to insert a leap second into UTC is currently the responsibility
of the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service. The IERS is
measuring the true earth rotation and determines when a leap second has to be
inserted. Insertion of a leap second is always scheduled for the end of the
last day of a month, preferably at the end of June or December, at UTC midnight.
Announcements whether a leap second is scheduled or not are published by the
IERS in their `Bulletin C <https://hpiers.obspm.fr/iers/bul/bulc/bulletinc.dat>`__.

`IANA <https://www.iana.org/time-zones>`__ (Internet Assigned Numbers Authority)
maintains a so-called Olson TZ database and provides a set of time zone
description files, including daylight saving information for the current year
as well as for past years. Beside the time zone description files it also
contains a leapseconds file. The TZDB version of the file is used to
implement the time zones support properly.

This section describes how ``datetime`` module supports leap seconds:

> *   Tarantool includes TZDB (also called ``tzdata``) and uses this database

Reviewer: If I'm correct, we cannot say that TZDB is also called `tzdata`. While TZDB is a collection of information about the world's time zones, `tzdata` a specific package that contains the information from the TZDB.

Author: Right, TZDB is a database with information about timezones and `tzdata` is a distribution package with other data (like leapsecond file), source code of programs and scripts. I'll fix it.

Author: Paragraph was removed.

>     for a correct time zones support. Use Lua module :doc:`/reference/reference_lua/tarantool`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for a correct time zones support. Use the Lua module :ref:`tarantool <tarantool-module>`
```

    to get a used version of ``tzdata``:

>     Since: :doc:`3.2.0 </release/3.2.0>`

Reviewer: `Since` between the description and example looks weird. Ideally, we should describe all the fields in the [Module tarantool](https://docs.d.tarantool.io/en/doc/gh-xxxx-missed-datetime-information/reference/reference_lua/tarantool/) docs and add the `Since` info there. As a workaround, let's update the previous sentence like this:

```
Since :doc:`3.2.0 </release/3.2.0>`, you can use the Lua module ....
```

Author: Updated:

```diff
--- a/doc/reference/reference_lua/datetime.rst
+++ b/doc/reference/reference_lua/datetime.rst
@@ -1082,10 +1082,9 @@ implement the time zones support properly.
 This section describes how ``datetime`` module supports leap seconds:
 
 *   Tarantool includes TZDB (also called ``tzdata``) and uses this database
-    for a correct time zones support. Use the Lua module :ref:`tarantool <tarantool-module>`
-    to get a used version of ``tzdata``:
-
-    Since: :doc:`3.2.0 </release/3.2.0>`
+    for a correct time zones support. Since :doc:`3.2.0 </release/3.2.0>`,
+    you can use the Lua module :ref:`tarantool <tarantool-module>` to get
+    a used version of ``tzdata``:
 
 ..  code-block:: tarantoolsession
 
```

but I've removed this paragraph for now, I'll add it in scope of doc request from #10387.

..  code-block:: tarantoolsession

    tarantool> require('tarantool').build.tzdata_version
    ---
    - 2024a
    ...

*   The function :ref:`datetime.parse() <datetime-parse>` correctly parses
    an input string with 60 seconds:

..  code-block:: tarantoolsession

    tarantool> datetime.parse('23:12:60', {format ='%H:%M:%S'})
    ---
    - 1970-01-01T23:13:00Z
    - 8
    ...

> *   The functions :ref:`datetime.new() <datetime-new>` and
>     :ref:`datetime.now() <datetime-now>`, :ref:`datetime:set() <datetime-set>`
>     accept a table with seconds equal to 60 seconds:

Reviewer: If I'm correct, `datetime.now()` doesn't accept any argument:

```suggestion
*   The :ref:`datetime.new() <datetime-new>` function and the :ref:`datetime_object:set <datetime-set>` method accept a table with the ``sec`` key set to 60 seconds:
```

> ..  code-block:: tarantoolsession

Reviewer: - Please add the 4-spaces indent before `..  code-block:: tarantoolsession` and the entire code block (the same for all code blocks inside lists).
- I'd remove all the examples after `datetime.new({ sec = 60 })`. Look a bit excessive.

Author: Done.

    tarantool> datetime.new({ sec = 60 })
    ---
    - 1970-01-01T00:01:00Z
    ...

    tarantool> dt = datetime.now()
    ---
    ...

    tarantool> dt
    ---
    - 2024-08-08T18:31:19.431773+0300
    ...

    tarantool> dt:set({ sec = 60 })
    ---
    - 2024-08-08T18:32:00.431773+0300
    ...

Limitations
-----------

> The supported date range is from -5879610-06-22 to +5879611-07-11.

Reviewer: Do we really need the examples below? Adding examples for such corner cases is unnecessary in docs.

Author: Okay, I'll remove it.

> The supported date range is from -5879610-06-22 to +5879611-07-11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The supported date range is from ``-5879610-06-22`` to ``+5879611-07-11``.
```

    ---
    - true
    ...

.. _leap-second:

Leap second
-----------

`Leap seconds <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leap_second>`__ are a periodic
one-second adjustment of Coordinated Universal Time(UTC) in order to keep
a system's time of day close to the mean solar time. However,
the Earth's rotation speed varies in response to climatic and geological events,
and due to this, UTC leap seconds are irregularly spaced and unpredictable.

> This section describes how ``datetime`` module supports leap seconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how the ``datetime`` module supports leap seconds:
```
